whether we're talking dollars in your
bank account items on a seafood buffet
or dates you've got lined up on tinder
more is generally considered to be
better a sentiment that also seems to
hold true with the number of cores in
your computer cpu at least if you buy
into the marketing hold on even though
having many cores definitely gives you a
boost in multi-threaded applications
like rendering 3d animations there are
actually situations where more cores
gives no benefit whatsoever or can even
actually hurt your system's performance
but how could this be
well to start off with the more cores
you pack onto a cpu the more power they
need and the more heat they generate and
remember that because cpu cores are
crammed into a relatively small space
manufacturers end up working against
some serious limits when it comes to
thermal design power or tdp
this means that to prevent the cpu from
drawing too much power and producing too
much heat the individual cores have
traditionally run their clock
frequencies lower to improve efficiency
and even if the advertised boost clock
for a cpu with lots and lots of course
can appear to be high
it's often the case that they cannot
maintain these clocks for long periods
of time or that they only do it when
you're running very light applications
so if you're using your computer mostly
for applications where single threaded
performance matters more such as games
that super expensive 18 core cpu might
actually yield you a worse experience
than something cheaper
and if you go with a really high core
count cpu there's another wrinkle with
how processors with that many cores
access the system memory you see in some
cases these larger cpus need to have
their core split into two groups or
nodes of course with each group getting
its own memory controller and segment of
the physical memory in a scheme called
non-uniform memory access or pneuma
[Music]
this is generally quicker than the
opposite solution called uniform memory
access or yuma where all the cores share
one big pool of memory but here's the
thing a cpu that uses pneuma which is
better for latency sensitive
applications can often struggle when
running a single program that uses tons
of threads
because of the different memory access
times between the nodes and the fact
that each node would have to wait on the
other one to finish working on the same
data highly multi-threaded programs like
these often don't want to cross nodes
even if it would mean being able to take
advantage of the entire cpu
so back to yuma then right
no
because one controller manages all the
memory accesses to give every program
equal time rather than allowing access
to the memory more directly as in numa
yuma has a built-in performance penalty
that increases the more nodes your
system has to manage
so using a cpu with separate groups of
cores means you're going to be subjected
to one of these drawbacks and you're
going to take a performance hit either
way and these are problems that you
simply don't run into on smaller chips
with fewer cores because you're not
dealing with multiple nodes
but getting away from memory access
sometimes the cores themselves are even
designed in a way that bottlenecks them
the more of them you slap onto a chip do
you remember how before ryzen amd
processors seemed to be significantly
slower than intel despite having more
cores
well a big reason for this was that
those old bulldozer fx processors didn't
use full cores
instead an fx cpu advertised as having a
cores would in reality have eight
integer units but only four floating
point units that were shared between the
eight cores so if you don't know what a
floating point unit is you can learn
more about that right up here but the
point is you could think of these cpus
as having
four
half cores that were missing which
severely hampered their single threaded
performance in some key applications
now this design allowed amd processors
to handle more threads for a cheaper
price but it also meant that their
real-world performance legged way behind
intel and the only way amd could try and
compensate was to increase clock speeds
which increased heat output and
contributed to amd's reputation for hot
running cpus for many years so what's
our bottom line then although both amd
and intel are using much wiser
strategies for their many core cpus and
clever boosting techniques to give them
similar single threaded performance to
their less costly brethren
if the best sales pitch for a super
premium product is that it doesn't
suffer a performance penalty in the
applications that you use
well
you'd better make sure you've got a use
case for it before spending your hard
earned cash and no playing fortnight and
watching techwiki definitely don't count
and neither does using brilliant because
you can kind of do it anywhere effective
learning guys is active not passive so
learning from lectures and videos is
just not as fast as diving in and doing
things yourself and brilliant is a
problem-solving based website and app
with a hands-on approach with over 60
interactive courses in math science and
computer science brilliant lets you
master concepts by solving fun
challenging problems for yourself rather
than by watching someone else do it and
this is really useful if you're in a
stem course their courses have
storytelling code writing interactive
challenges and problems to solve and you
can check out great courses like the one
on search engines so you can learn how
it is that google answers a question in
a fraction of a second even though there
are so many billions of sites to search
through
so check it out now because the first
200 of you to head to brilliant.org
techwiki we're going to have that linked
below are going to get 20 off their
annual premium subscription
so thanks for watching guys like dislike
check out our other videos and don't
forget to subscribe
that wouldn't be brilliant would it